# What is **[OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/kubernetes/getting-started/)**?

A short explanation of what OpenTelemetry is, and is not.
OpenTelemetry is an Observability framework and toolkit designed to create and manage telemetry data such as traces, metrics, and logs. Crucially, OpenTelemetry is vendor- and tool-agnostic, meaning that it can be used with a broad variety of Observability backends, including open source tools like Jaeger and Prometheus, as well as commercial offerings. OpenTelemetry is a Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) project.

Overview
Kubernetes exposes a lot of important telemetry in many different ways. It has logs, events, metrics for many different objects, and the data generated by its workloads.

To collect all of this data we’ll use the OpenTelemetry Collector. The collector has many different tools at its disposal which allow it to efficiently collect all this data and enhance it in meaningful ways.

To collect all the data, we’ll need two installations of the collector, one as a Daemonset and one as a Deployment. The Daemonset installation of the collector will be used to collect telemetry emitted by services, logs, and metrics for nodes, pods, and containers. The deployment installation of the collector will be used to collect metrics for the cluster and events.

To install the collector, we’ll use the OpenTelemetry Collector Helm chart, which comes with a few configuration options that will make configure the collector easier. If you’re unfamiliar with Helm, check out the Helm project site. If you’re interested in using a Kubernetes operator, see OpenTelemetry Operator, but this guide will focus on the Helm chart.
